[comment]: # " File: readme.md"
[comment]: # "  Copyright (c) 2019-2022 Splunk Inc."
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the 'License');"
[comment]: # "you may not use this file except in compliance with the License."
[comment]: # "You may obtain a copy of the License at"
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under"
[comment]: # "the License is distributed on an 'AS IS' BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND,"
[comment]: # "either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions"
[comment]: # "and limitations under the License."
[comment]: # ""
## Authentication

This app supports three types of authentication:

-   Basic authentication
-   OAuth authentication
-   Using the personal access token

### Basic authentication

To use basic authentication, provide the username and password of your GitHub account in
**username** and **password** fields of asset configuration. Click save and run test connectivity.

### Using the personal access token

To use this method navigate to [GitHub](https://www.github.com) in a browser and log in with your
credentials.

1.  In the upper right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click **Settings**
2.  In the left sidebar, click **Developer settings**
3.  In the left sidebar, click **Personal access tokens**
4.  Click **Generate new token**
5.  Provide any descriptive name to the token
6.  Select the following checkboxes:
    -   repo
    -   admin: org
    -   user
7.  Click Generate token
8.  Copy the token and save it somewhere safe, as you will not be able to see the token again

Provide the token generated by performing the above steps in the **personal_access_token** field in
asset configuration. Click save and run test connectivity.

### OAuth authentication

To use this method navigate to [GitHub](https://www.github.com) in a browser and log in with your
credentials.

1.  In the upper right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click **Settings**
2.  In the left sidebar, click **Developer settings**
3.  In the left sidebar, click **OAuth Apps**
4.  Click **New OAuth App**
5.  Provide any name to your application
6.  Provide any valid URL as Homepage URL
7.  For now, provide any valid URL as Authorization callback URL. We will change it later.
8.  Click on Register application
9.  Get **Client ID** and **Client Secret**


While creating the asset for this authentication method, provide the Client ID and Client Secret
generated during previous steps in **client_id** and **client_secret** field of asset configuration
and click on Save.
A new field called **POST incoming for GitHub to this location** will appear in the **Asset
Settings** tab. Take the URL found in this field and place it in the **Authorization callback URL**
field of your registered app on the GitHub page. To this URL, add **/result** at the end. After
doing so the URL should look something like:

    https://<phantom_host>/rest/handler/github_5553a13b-ca44-4d03-ac48-293fce874001/<asset_name>/result

Once again, click save.

## Method to run test connectivity

For the Basic Authentication and Personal Access Token method of authentication, you just need to
click the **TEST CONNECTIVITY** button.
For the OAuth authentication method, Click on the **TEST CONNECTIVITY** button, a window will pop up
and display a URL. Navigate to this URL in a separate browser tab. This new tab will redirect to the
GitHub login page. Log in using your GitHub account. After logging in, review the requested
permissions, provide the organization access from listed organizations, and click **Authorize
\<your-user-name>** button. Finally, close that tab. The test connectivity window should show a
success message.

## State file permissions

Please check the permissions for the state file as mentioned below.

#### State file path

-   For Non-NRI instance: /opt/phantom/local_data/app_states/\<appid>/\<asset_id>\_state.json
-   For NRI instance:
    /\<PHANTOM_HOME_DIRECTORY>/local_data/app_states/\<appid>/\<asset_id>\_state.json

#### State file permissions

-   File rights: rw-rw-r-- (664) (The phantom user should have read and write access for the state
    file)
-   File owner: Appropriate phantom user

## Note

-   All the asset configuration parameters are optional, but you need to provide the configuration
    parameters based on the authentication method you want to use. Otherwise, the actions will
    return an error.
-   Once you run test connectivity using the **OAuth authentication** method, all the actions other
    than test connectivity will pass for that asset, even if you remove the configuration parameters
    after running test connectivity.
-   If you have provided all the configuration parameters, the priority of the authentication method
    is as follows:
    1.  Basic authentication
    2.  Using the personal access token
    3.  OAuth token
